README.md, before:


## Docker usage
You can run the MUD inside a portable Docker container. The steps below start with getting Docker on each major OS, then show how to copy this code locally and run the container from a terminal. GUI download options are noted for users who prefer them.

### 1) Install Docker

#### macOS
- **Terminal-first (recommended):**
  1. Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) if you do not already have it.
  2. In Terminal, install Docker Desktop:  
     ```bash
     brew install --cask docker
     ```
  3. Open Docker Desktop from Launchpad or run `open /Applications/Docker.app` so it can finish setup.
- **GUI option:** Download Docker Desktop for Mac from <https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop>, drag it to Applications, then launch it once to complete initialization.

#### Windows 10/11
- **PowerShell-first (recommended):**
  1. Enable virtualization (most systems ship enabled; otherwise turn on “Virtualization Technology” in BIOS/UEFI).
  2. Install WSL 2 and the kernel update (if not already installed):  
     ```powershell
     wsl --install
     ```
  3. Install Docker Desktop via winget:  
     ```powershell
     winget install -e --id Docker.DockerDesktop
     ```
  4. Start Docker Desktop once; accept prompts to enable WSL integration.
- **GUI option:** Download Docker Desktop for Windows from <https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop>, run the installer, enable WSL 2 integration when prompted, and launch Docker Desktop.

#### Ubuntu (and Debian-based Linux)
- **Terminal (apt):**
  ```bash
  sudo apt update
  sudo apt install -y docker.io
  sudo systemctl enable --now docker
  sudo usermod -aG docker "$USER"
  ```
  Log out/in or run `newgrp docker` so your user can run Docker without sudo.
- **Other distributions:** Install the vendor Docker Engine package for your distro (for example, `dnf install docker` on Fedora) or download static binaries from <https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/>.

### 2) Install Git
If Git is not already available, install it using the package manager for your platform.

- **macOS (Homebrew):**
  ```bash
  brew install git
  ```
- **Windows:** Install via winget or the Git for Windows installer.
  - **winget (PowerShell):**
    ```powershell
    winget install -e --id Git.Git
    ```
  - **Installer:** Download [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win), then use the bundled Git Bash or enable "Git from the command line" during setup.
- **Ubuntu / Debian:**
  ```bash
  sudo apt update
  sudo apt install -y git
  ```
- **Other Linux distributions:** Install the `git` package via your distro's package manager (for example, `dnf install git` on Fedora).

### 3) Copy the code locally
Use Git to clone the repository into a working folder.

- **macOS / Linux (bash/zsh):**
  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/jeremydbean/tocGPT.git
  cd tocGPT
  ```

- **Windows PowerShell:**
  ```powershell
  git clone https://github.com/jeremydbean/tocGPT.git
  cd tocGPT
  ```

### 4) Build and run the Docker container
Run these commands from inside the cloned `tocGPT` folder. Windows checkouts can inject `CRLF` endings into shell scripts, which makes Linux report `#!/bin/sh^M` and fail to exec the entrypoint. The Dockerfile now normalizes `docker-entrypoint.sh` to Linux `LF` endings during the build, but keep your editor in `LF` mode when editing shell scripts to avoid surprises.

1. Build the image:
   ```bash
   docker build -t toc .
   ```
2. Start the game server on the default port 9000 with host persistence (recommended):
   - **macOS / Linux (bash/zsh):**
     ```bash
     docker run --rm -it \
       -p 9000:9000 \
       -v $(pwd)/player:/app/player \
       -v $(pwd)/backups:/app/backups \
       -v $(pwd)/log:/app/log \
       toc
     ```
   - **Windows PowerShell:**
     ```powershell
     docker run --rm -it -p 9000:9000 `
         -v "${PWD}\player:/app/player" `
         -v "${PWD}\backups:/app/backups" `
         -v "${PWD}\log:/app/log" `
         toc
     ```
3. Change the port (optional) by setting `PORT`/`MUD_PORT` while keeping persistence:
   ```bash
   docker run --rm -it \
     -e PORT=4000 \
     -p 4000:4000 \
     -v $(pwd)/player:/app/player \
     -v $(pwd)/backups:/app/backups \
     -v $(pwd)/log:/app/log \
     toc
   ```
4. Publish the web admin dashboard (port 9001) alongside the game port (persistent storage). The dashboard now binds to `0.0.0.0` by default inside the container so it is reachable from the host; set `WEB_ADMIN_HOST` to `127.0.0.1` if you want to restrict it to container-local access only:
    ```bash
    docker run --rm -it \
      -p 9000:9000 \   # game
      -p 9001:9001 \   # web admin
      -v $(pwd)/player:/app/player \
      -v $(pwd)/backups:/app/backups \
      -v $(pwd)/log:/app/log \
      toc
    ```
    ```powershell
    docker run --rm -it -p 9000:9000 `
        -p 9001:9001 `
        -v "${PWD}\player:/app/player" `
        -v "${PWD}\backups:/app/backups" `
        -v "${PWD}\log:/app/log" `
        toc
    ```
5. Run without host persistence (not recommended): drop the `-v` flags to use container-local storage only:
   ```bash
   docker run --rm -it -p 9000:9000 toc
   ```

The container entrypoint accepts optional arguments if you need to pass flags directly to the `merc` binary (for example, `newlock` to block new players). If no arguments are provided, it automatically starts the server on the configured port.

## Web administration dashboard
The container starts a lightweight FastAPI web dashboard alongside the game server. It provides a browser UI plus JSON endpoints so admins can queue in-game actions without logging in as an immortal. By default it listens on port `9001` inside the container and can be disabled with `WEB_ADMIN_ENABLED=0`.

### How to expose and open the dashboard
1. Publish the admin port when launching the container (change host ports as desired). By default the service binds to `0.0.0.0:9001` inside the container so the mapped port is reachable from the host; set `-e WEB_ADMIN_HOST=127.0.0.1` if you need to confine it to container-only access:
   ```bash
   docker run --rm -it \
     -p 9000:9000 \   # game
     -p 9001:9001 \   # web admin
     -v $(pwd)/player:/app/player \
     -v $(pwd)/backups:/app/backups \
     -v $(pwd)/log:/app/log \
     toc
   ```
   ```powershell
   docker run --rm -it -p 9000:9000 `
       -p 9001:9001 `
       -v "${PWD}\player:/app/player" `
       -v "${PWD}\backups:/app/backups" `
       -v "${PWD}\log:/app/log" `
       toc
   ```
2. Open <http://localhost:9001/> in your browser to use the UI.

### Available actions (UI and API)
- **WizInfo broadcast:** Sends a WizInfo message to connected players at the chosen minimum level (defaults to 62). Queued as `wizinfo|<level>|<message>` in `/app/area/webadmin.queue`.
- **Run immortal command:** Queues `command|<text>` which the game executes through the highest-trust connected immortal. Use this for admin-only commands like `copyover`, `wizinvis`, or moderation tools.
- **Backup:** Queues `backup`, which invokes the existing `do_backup` routine from inside the game loop.
- **Shutdown:** Queues `shutdown` for a clean server stop.
- **Log tail:** Shows the last 200 lines of `log/toc.log` and refreshes every 15 seconds. Also available at `/api/logs`.
- **Health:** `/api/health` returns process flags for the MUD (`merc`) and the web service itself.

### Endpoint summary
| Method | Path            | Body                           | Purpose                             |
|--------|-----------------|--------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| GET    | `/`             | —                              | HTML dashboard                      |
| GET    | `/api/health`   | —                              | Process status JSON                 |
| GET    | `/api/logs`     | `?lines=200` (optional)        | Last N lines of `log/toc.log`       |
| POST   | `/api/wizinfo`  | `{ "message": "text", "level": 62? }` | Queue WizInfo broadcast             |
| POST   | `/api/command`  | `{ "command": "text" }`      | Queue immortal command              |
| POST   | `/api/backup`   | —                              | Queue `do_backup`                   |
| POST   | `/api/shutdown` | —                              | Queue shutdown request              |

### Configuration knobs
- `WEB_ADMIN_PORT` (default `9001`): Port exposed inside the container.
- `WEB_ADMIN_HOST` (default `0.0.0.0`): Bind address for the FastAPI server (set to `127.0.0.1` if you want to limit access to inside the container only).
- `WEB_ADMIN_ENABLED` (default `1`): Set to `0` to skip starting the service.
- `WEB_ADMIN_QUEUE` (default `/app/area/webadmin.queue`): Where requests are queued for the game loop.
- `WEB_ADMIN_LOG_FILE` (default `/app/log/toc.log`): Log file used by `/api/logs`.

### How it works under the hood
The web service appends newline-delimited actions to `/app/area/webadmin.queue`. On each game tick, the server reads and clears the queue, then executes requests in order—broadcasting WizInfo, running immortal commands, kicking off backups, or initiating shutdown. This means queued actions are only processed while the game is running. Restarting the container clears the queue file but preserves the log file if you mounted it from the host.

> **Security note:** Expose the admin port only to trusted networks or behind a reverse proxy with authentication. The default deployment does not enforce login on the web dashboard.

## Fixing the "dockerDesktopLinuxEngine" pipe error on Windows
If you see this during a build:

```
ERROR: error during connect: Head "http://%2F%2F.%2Fpipe%2FdockerDesktopLinuxEngine/_ping": open //./pipe/dockerDesktopLinuxEngine: The system cannot find the file specified.
```

Docker Desktop's Linux backend is not running. This usually means WSL features are disabled, the WSL 2 kernel is outdated, the `LxssManager` service is stuck, or Docker Desktop failed to initialize its Linux VM.

### Bundled repair script (recommended)
Use the included `docker_wsl_repair.ps1` to recover Docker Desktop automatically. Run it from an elevated PowerShell prompt in the repository root:

```powershell
powershell -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File .\docker_wsl_repair.ps1
```

What the script does:

- Detects whether Docker Desktop is installed and exits early with guidance if it is missing.
- Ensures the WSL and Virtual Machine Platform Windows features are enabled.
- Updates the WSL kernel and sets the default WSL version to 2.
- Restarts the `LxssManager` service (and asks you to reboot if the service is missing because WSL has not finished installing).
- Restarts Docker Desktop, waits for `com.docker.service` to report `Running`, and verifies `docker version`, `docker info`, and `docker run hello-world`.
- Exits with a non-zero status if any step fails so automation can detect the issue.

If you see a message that `LxssManager` is missing, reboot Windows so the WSL features can register the service, then rerun the script.

### Manual validation
After the script completes, confirm Docker responds normally:

```powershell
docker version
docker info
docker run hello-world
```

### Fresh install checklist

```powershell
wsl --install
wsl --update
Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux -NoRestart
Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName VirtualMachinePlatform -NoRestart
wsl --set-default-version 2
```

Reboot, then install Docker Desktop from <https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop>.

## Troubleshooting line endings on Windows
- **Symptom:** The container exits with `exec /usr/local/bin/docker-entrypoint.sh: no such file or directory` even though the file exists in the image. Inside the script you may see a shebang rendered as `#!/bin/sh^M`.
- **Cause:** Windows editors can introduce carriage returns (`^M`) via `CRLF` line endings, which confuse the Linux shell.
- **Fix:** The Dockerfile now strips carriage returns from `docker-entrypoint.sh` during the build so the entrypoint runs reliably. If you want to double-check your checkout, run:
  ```bash
  cat -A docker-entrypoint.sh | head
  ```
  The output should **not** show `^M` characters; if it does, convert the file to `LF` endings before rebuilding.

## Publishing your changes to GitHub
If you don't see updates on GitHub after working locally, verify that your commits are pushed to a remote. From the repository root:

1. Confirm the remote configuration (adds one if missing):
   ```
   git remote -v
   # If nothing is listed, add your GitHub URL (example shown):
   git remote add origin https://github.com/<your-username>/tocGPT.git
   ```
2. Make sure you're on the branch you want to publish (this repository's active branch is `work`):
   ```
   git branch
   git checkout work
   ```
3. Push the branch to GitHub:
   ```
   git push origin work
   ```
4. Open a pull request on GitHub from the pushed branch. Once the PR is merged into your default branch (often `main` or `master`), the changes will appear on GitHub.

If `git push` reports authentication issues, sign in with a GitHub token or SSH key and rerun the push command.

## Applying patches with `git apply`
To apply a patch file or an inline diff, run the command from the repository root so Git can find the correct paths. For example, using three-way merge to reduce conflicts:

```
cd /path/to/tocGPT
git apply --3way /path/to/change.diff
```

If you're pasting an inline diff (like one provided in chat), wrap it with a here-doc while in the repo root:

```
cd /path/to/tocGPT
git apply --3way <<'EOF'
<paste the diff here>
EOF
```

If the patch applies cleanly, rerun `git status` to review the changes before committing.

Commit message:

Add memory leak audit notes and Valgrind tooling

README.md, after:


## Docker usage
You can run the MUD inside a portable Docker container. The steps below start with getting Docker on each major OS, then show how to copy this code locally and run the container from a terminal. GUI download options are noted for users who prefer them.

### 1) Install Docker

#### macOS
- **Terminal-first (recommended):**
  1. Install [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) if you do not already have it.
  2. In Terminal, install Docker Desktop:  
     ```bash
     brew install --cask docker
     ```
  3. Open Docker Desktop from Launchpad or run `open /Applications/Docker.app` so it can finish setup.
- **GUI option:** Download Docker Desktop for Mac from <https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop>, drag it to Applications, then launch it once to complete initialization.

#### Windows 10/11
- **PowerShell-first (recommended):**
  1. Enable virtualization (most systems ship enabled; otherwise turn on “Virtualization Technology” in BIOS/UEFI).
  2. Install WSL 2 and the kernel update (if not already installed):  
     ```powershell
     wsl --install
     ```
  3. Install Docker Desktop via winget:  
     ```powershell
     winget install -e --id Docker.DockerDesktop
     ```
  4. Start Docker Desktop once; accept prompts to enable WSL integration.
- **GUI option:** Download Docker Desktop for Windows from <https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop>, run the installer, enable WSL 2 integration when prompted, and launch Docker Desktop.

#### Ubuntu (and Debian-based Linux)
- **Terminal (apt):**
  ```bash
  sudo apt update
  sudo apt install -y docker.io
  sudo systemctl enable --now docker
  sudo usermod -aG docker "$USER"
  ```
  Log out/in or run `newgrp docker` so your user can run Docker without sudo.
- **Other distributions:** Install the vendor Docker Engine package for your distro (for example, `dnf install docker` on Fedora) or download static binaries from <https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/>.

### 2) Install Git
If Git is not already available, install it using the package manager for your platform.

- **macOS (Homebrew):**
  ```bash
  brew install git
  ```
- **Windows:** Install via winget or the Git for Windows installer.
  - **winget (PowerShell):**
    ```powershell
    winget install -e --id Git.Git
    ```
  - **Installer:** Download [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win), then use the bundled Git Bash or enable "Git from the command line" during setup.
- **Ubuntu / Debian:**
  ```bash
  sudo apt update
  sudo apt install -y git
  ```
- **Other Linux distributions:** Install the `git` package via your distro's package manager (for example, `dnf install git` on Fedora).

### 3) Copy the code locally
Use Git to clone the repository into a working folder.

- **macOS / Linux (bash/zsh):**
  ```bash
  git clone https://github.com/jeremydbean/tocGPT.git
  cd tocGPT
  ```

- **Windows PowerShell:**
  ```powershell
  git clone https://github.com/jeremydbean/tocGPT.git
  cd tocGPT
  ```

### 4) Build and run the Docker container
Run these commands from inside the cloned `tocGPT` folder. Windows checkouts can inject `CRLF` endings into shell scripts, which makes Linux report `#!/bin/sh^M` and fail to exec the entrypoint. The Dockerfile now normalizes `docker-entrypoint.sh` to Linux `LF` endings during the build, but keep your editor in `LF` mode when editing shell scripts to avoid surprises.

1. Build the image:
   ```bash
   docker build -t toc .
   ```
2. Start the game server on the default port 9000 with host persistence (recommended):
   - **macOS / Linux (bash/zsh):**
     ```bash
     docker run --rm -it \
       -p 9000:9000 \
       -v $(pwd)/player:/app/player \
       -v $(pwd)/backups:/app/backups \
       -v $(pwd)/log:/app/log \
       toc
     ```
   - **Windows PowerShell:**
     ```powershell
     docker run --rm -it -p 9000:9000 `
         -v "${PWD}\player:/app/player" `
         -v "${PWD}\backups:/app/backups" `
         -v "${PWD}\log:/app/log" `
         toc
     ```
3. Change the port (optional) by setting `PORT`/`MUD_PORT` while keeping persistence:
   ```bash
   docker run --rm -it \
     -e PORT=4000 \
     -p 4000:4000 \
     -v $(pwd)/player:/app/player \
     -v $(pwd)/backups:/app/backups \
     -v $(pwd)/log:/app/log \
     toc
   ```

### Checking for memory leaks with Valgrind

The runtime image includes Valgrind so you can track down leaks during play sessions.

- Start the server under Valgrind: `docker run --rm -it toc ./scripts/run_valgrind.sh`
- Pass any usual `merc` arguments after `--` if you need to override defaults, for example: `docker run --rm -it toc ./scripts/run_valgrind.sh -- -p 9000`

Valgrind output will appear in the container logs, highlighting any allocations that are not freed when characters quit or objects are extracted.
4. Publish the web admin dashboard (port 9001) alongside the game port (persistent storage). The dashboard now binds to `0.0.0.0` by default inside the container so it is reachable from the host; set `WEB_ADMIN_HOST` to `127.0.0.1` if you want to restrict it to container-local access only:
    ```bash
    docker run --rm -it \
      -p 9000:9000 \   # game
      -p 9001:9001 \   # web admin
      -v $(pwd)/player:/app/player \
      -v $(pwd)/backups:/app/backups \
      -v $(pwd)/log:/app/log \
      toc
    ```
    ```powershell
    docker run --rm -it -p 9000:9000 `
        -p 9001:9001 `
        -v "${PWD}\player:/app/player" `
        -v "${PWD}\backups:/app/backups" `
        -v "${PWD}\log:/app/log" `
        toc
    ```
5. Run without host persistence (not recommended): drop the `-v` flags to use container-local storage only:
   ```bash
   docker run --rm -it -p 9000:9000 toc
   ```

The container entrypoint accepts optional arguments if you need to pass flags directly to the `merc` binary (for example, `newlock` to block new players). If no arguments are provided, it automatically starts the server on the configured port.

## Web administration dashboard
The container starts a lightweight FastAPI web dashboard alongside the game server. It provides a browser UI plus JSON endpoints so admins can queue in-game actions without logging in as an immortal. By default it listens on port `9001` inside the container and can be disabled with `WEB_ADMIN_ENABLED=0`.

### How to expose and open the dashboard
1. Publish the admin port when launching the container (change host ports as desired). By default the service binds to `0.0.0.0:9001` inside the container so the mapped port is reachable from the host; set `-e WEB_ADMIN_HOST=127.0.0.1` if you need to confine it to container-only access:
   ```bash
   docker run --rm -it \
     -p 9000:9000 \   # game
     -p 9001:9001 \   # web admin
     -v $(pwd)/player:/app/player \
     -v $(pwd)/backups:/app/backups \
     -v $(pwd)/log:/app/log \
     toc
   ```
   ```powershell
   docker run --rm -it -p 9000:9000 `
       -p 9001:9001 `
       -v "${PWD}\player:/app/player" `
       -v "${PWD}\backups:/app/backups" `
       -v "${PWD}\log:/app/log" `
       toc
   ```
2. Open <http://localhost:9001/> in your browser to use the UI.

### Available actions (UI and API)
- **WizInfo broadcast:** Sends a WizInfo message to connected players at the chosen minimum level (defaults to 62). Queued as `wizinfo|<level>|<message>` in `/app/area/webadmin.queue`.
- **Run immortal command:** Queues `command|<text>` which the game executes through the highest-trust connected immortal. Use this for admin-only commands like `copyover`, `wizinvis`, or moderation tools.
- **Backup:** Queues `backup`, which invokes the existing `do_backup` routine from inside the game loop.
- **Shutdown:** Queues `shutdown` for a clean server stop.
- **Log tail:** Shows the last 200 lines of `log/toc.log` and refreshes every 15 seconds. Also available at `/api/logs`.
- **Health:** `/api/health` returns process flags for the MUD (`merc`) and the web service itself.

### Endpoint summary
| Method | Path            | Body                           | Purpose                             |
|--------|-----------------|--------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| GET    | `/`             | —                              | HTML dashboard                      |
| GET    | `/api/health`   | —                              | Process status JSON                 |
| GET    | `/api/logs`     | `?lines=200` (optional)        | Last N lines of `log/toc.log`       |
| POST   | `/api/wizinfo`  | `{ "message": "text", "level": 62? }` | Queue WizInfo broadcast             |
| POST   | `/api/command`  | `{ "command": "text" }`      | Queue immortal command              |
| POST   | `/api/backup`   | —                              | Queue `do_backup`                   |
| POST   | `/api/shutdown` | —                              | Queue shutdown request              |

### Configuration knobs
- `WEB_ADMIN_PORT` (default `9001`): Port exposed inside the container.
- `WEB_ADMIN_HOST` (default `0.0.0.0`): Bind address for the FastAPI server (set to `127.0.0.1` if you want to limit access to inside the container only).
- `WEB_ADMIN_ENABLED` (default `1`): Set to `0` to skip starting the service.
- `WEB_ADMIN_QUEUE` (default `/app/area/webadmin.queue`): Where requests are queued for the game loop.
- `WEB_ADMIN_LOG_FILE` (default `/app/log/toc.log`): Log file used by `/api/logs`.

### How it works under the hood
The web service appends newline-delimited actions to `/app/area/webadmin.queue`. On each game tick, the server reads and clears the queue, then executes requests in order—broadcasting WizInfo, running immortal commands, kicking off backups, or initiating shutdown. This means queued actions are only processed while the game is running. Restarting the container clears the queue file but preserves the log file if you mounted it from the host.

> **Security note:** Expose the admin port only to trusted networks or behind a reverse proxy with authentication. The default deployment does not enforce login on the web dashboard.

## Fixing the "dockerDesktopLinuxEngine" pipe error on Windows
If you see this during a build:

```
ERROR: error during connect: Head "http://%2F%2F.%2Fpipe%2FdockerDesktopLinuxEngine/_ping": open //./pipe/dockerDesktopLinuxEngine: The system cannot find the file specified.
```

Docker Desktop's Linux backend is not running. This usually means WSL features are disabled, the WSL 2 kernel is outdated, the `LxssManager` service is stuck, or Docker Desktop failed to initialize its Linux VM.

### Bundled repair script (recommended)
Use the included `docker_wsl_repair.ps1` to recover Docker Desktop automatically. Run it from an elevated PowerShell prompt in the repository root:

```powershell
powershell -ExecutionPolicy Bypass -File .\docker_wsl_repair.ps1
```

What the script does:

- Detects whether Docker Desktop is installed and exits early with guidance if it is missing.
- Ensures the WSL and Virtual Machine Platform Windows features are enabled.
- Updates the WSL kernel and sets the default WSL version to 2.
- Restarts the `LxssManager` service (and asks you to reboot if the service is missing because WSL has not finished installing).
- Restarts Docker Desktop, waits for `com.docker.service` to report `Running`, and verifies `docker version`, `docker info`, and `docker run hello-world`.
- Exits with a non-zero status if any step fails so automation can detect the issue.

If you see a message that `LxssManager` is missing, reboot Windows so the WSL features can register the service, then rerun the script.

### Manual validation
After the script completes, confirm Docker responds normally:

```powershell
docker version
docker info
docker run hello-world
```

### Fresh install checklist

```powershell
wsl --install
wsl --update
Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux -NoRestart
Enable-WindowsOptionalFeature -Online -FeatureName VirtualMachinePlatform -NoRestart
wsl --set-default-version 2
```

Reboot, then install Docker Desktop from <https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop>.

## Troubleshooting line endings on Windows
- **Symptom:** The container exits with `exec /usr/local/bin/docker-entrypoint.sh: no such file or directory` even though the file exists in the image. Inside the script you may see a shebang rendered as `#!/bin/sh^M`.
- **Cause:** Windows editors can introduce carriage returns (`^M`) via `CRLF` line endings, which confuse the Linux shell.
- **Fix:** The Dockerfile now strips carriage returns from `docker-entrypoint.sh` during the build so the entrypoint runs reliably. If you want to double-check your checkout, run:
  ```bash
  cat -A docker-entrypoint.sh | head
  ```
  The output should **not** show `^M` characters; if it does, convert the file to `LF` endings before rebuilding.

## Publishing your changes to GitHub
If you don't see updates on GitHub after working locally, verify that your commits are pushed to a remote. From the repository root:

1. Confirm the remote configuration (adds one if missing):
   ```
   git remote -v
   # If nothing is listed, add your GitHub URL (example shown):
   git remote add origin https://github.com/<your-username>/tocGPT.git
   ```
2. Make sure you're on the branch you want to publish (this repository's active branch is `work`):
   ```
   git branch
   git checkout work
   ```
3. Push the branch to GitHub:
   ```
   git push origin work
   ```
4. Open a pull request on GitHub from the pushed branch. Once the PR is merged into your default branch (often `main` or `master`), the changes will appear on GitHub.

If `git push` reports authentication issues, sign in with a GitHub token or SSH key and rerun the push command.

## Applying patches with `git apply`
To apply a patch file or an inline diff, run the command from the repository root so Git can find the correct paths. For example, using three-way merge to reduce conflicts:

```
cd /path/to/tocGPT
git apply --3way /path/to/change.diff
```

If you're pasting an inline diff (like one provided in chat), wrap it with a here-doc while in the repo root:

```
cd /path/to/tocGPT
git apply --3way <<'EOF'
<paste the diff here>
EOF
```

If the patch applies cleanly, rerun `git status` to review the changes before committing.
